There's this term everyone's hearing
about AEO.
>> Answer engine optimization. Just how do
I show up in LMS as an answer?
>> It feels like such a big deal to win at
AEO.
>> In order to win something like what's
the best website builder that Google
they would win if their blue link showed
up first, but that's not the case in the
LM cuz the LM is summarizing many
citations and so you need to get
mentioned as many times as possible.
>> Chad GBT is driving more traffic to my
newsletter than Twitter.
>> You can get mentioned by a citation
tomorrow and start showing up
immediately. You can have a Reddit
thread, you can have a YouTube video,
you can be mentioned on a blog. So early
stage companies can win. They can win
quickly.
>> Are the leads that these answer engines
driving to companies actually valuable?
>> Significantly more valuable. Web flow
saw a 6x conversion rate difference
between LLM traffic and Google search
traffic.
>> A lot of people are seeing this as
everything is different. Nothing we've
done before is going to work. We have to
rethink everything.
>> There's significant misinformation on
AEO. There's news articles about how
Google searches is going to die because
there's a new thing. Google's slice of
the pie stays the same. The pie gets
bigger.
Today, my guest is Ethan Smith. Ethan is
the CEO of Graphite and my go-to expert
for all things SEO. SEO is going through
a major transition right now. Everyone
used to go to Google anytime they had a
question or were looking for a product
or doing research. These days a lot of
people are moving to Jadypt and Claude
and Gemini and Perplexity to get answers
to their questions and this will only be
accelerating over time and even Google
is changing the search experience in a
pretty radical way with AI overviews at
the top and their newly introduced AI
mode which is basically their own
version of chatbt. This means that the
world of SEO is going through a big
change, including the rise of AEO, which
stands for answer engine optimization.
Basically, SEO for chatbt, getting your
product to show up in the answers that
people get. Ethan has been at the
forefront of this new skill and channel.
And in this conversation, he shares
everything that he's learned about how
to get your product to show up more
often inside of the answers that people
get. The advice that Ethan shares in
this conversation is incredibly tactical
and worth a lot of money. So, please
slurp it up and use it for your own
products. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 15
incredible products, including Lovable,
Replet, Bolt, Naden, Linear, Superhum,
Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity,
Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns, Rake,
Japd, and Mobin. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Ethan
Smith. This episode is brought to you by
Orcus, the company behind Open-source
Conductor, the orchestration platform
powering modern enterprise apps and
agentic workflows. Legacy automation
tools can't keep pace. Siloed low code
platforms, outdated process management,
and disconnected API tooling fall short
in today's event-driven AI powered
agentic landscape. Orcus changes this.
With Orcus Conductor, you gain an
agentic orchestration layer that
seamlessly connects humans, AI agents,
APIs, microservices, and data pipelines
in real time at enterprise scale. Visual
and codeforce development, built-in
compliance, observability, and rock
solid reliability ensure workflows
evolve dynamically with your needs. It's
not just about automating tasks. It's
orchestrating autonomous agents and
complex workflows to deliver smarter
outcomes faster. Whether modernizing
legacy systems or scaling nextgen
AIdriven apps, Orcus accelerates your
journey from idea to production. Learn
more and start building at
orcus.io/lenny.
That's oes.io/lenny.
My podcast guests and I love talking
about craft and taste and agency and
product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? Sock 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first sock 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vanta
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Ethan, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Welcome back
to the podcast.
>> Excited to be back. We did a podcast
episode just over two and a half years
ago. I think of it as the definitive
guide on how to win at SEO. People have
been referencing it ever since. I'm
really proud of what we did there. But
things have changed. Things are changing
in the world of SEO. And so, uh, I'm
excited to talk to you again about how
to be successful in this new emerging
world where AI is changing, how SEO
works, the rise of AO and GEO. Let me
start with just this question. How long
have you been working on SEO at this
point? And has anything come close to
being this significant in changing the
skill of SEO?
>> Yes. So, I got started in SEO in 2007.
So, it's been 18 years. And the actually
the largest change when I got started in
SEO, I got started in programmatic SEO
and commerce SEO like next tag and
shopping.com and and uh PriceGrabber.
And that was when you could do mass
autogenerated landing pages. And uh that
was probably the biggest shift which is
Google introduced a bunch of algorithms
Panda and and similar things to prevent
you from doing spam. So essentially you
went from SEO being spam to not spam.
That was probably the biggest change.
And then this is probably the second
biggest change. I think that the main
thing here is it is related to search
but it's a summarization of search and
there's new inputs. So it's probably the
second biggest change. Okay, that is
really interesting because I think a lot
of people are seeing this as like
everything is different. Nothing we've
done before before is going to work. We
have to rethink everything. You're
saying this is actually the second
biggest change and just like Google's
update back in the day was actually even
more significant.
>> Yep. Very cool. Okay, let's set a little
context for folks. Let's define some
terms. There's this term everyone's
hearing about. There's actually two, AEO
and GEO. What do they stand for? Are
they different? What are they referring
to specifically?
>> They I think are the same. Ultimately,
the definition of a word is whatever a
group of people agree is the definition
of a word. So, I think we'll see what
people decide as the definition of the
word. I'll put forward my definition.
So, AEO and GEO are are essentially
trying to describe the same thing, which
is how do I show up in in LMS as an
answer? And I personally prefer answer
engine optimization versus generative
engine optimization because generative
can you can generate images and videos
and things other than an answer whereas
answer is more narrowly defined. So my
personal preference is we're talking
about optimizing LLM. So an answer is
more more uh narrow of a definition than
generative but ultimately it's whatever
whatever we decide is is the name and
the definition is what it will be.
>> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. answer engine
optimization sounds a lot cleaner to me
if you had to pick one. So, it's good to
know they're the same thing. People,
some people just prefer the latter one
for some reason. Uh, it's interesting
because recently, uh, I don't know if I
told you this, but I was looking at my
referral traffic and I found that chat
GBT is driving more traffic to my
newsletter than Twitter, which I did not
see coming. So, somehow it's already
happening. Uh, I'm excited to learn just
how to lean into that potentially and
optimize it further.
>> And when did you see the spike? Did you
see when it started growing
dramatically?
>> Unfortunately, the dashboard I have
doesn't give me great like per referral
traffic optimization. When when do you
think I probably saw it?
>> Companies that we work with started in
January. And it started one because of
more adoption, but two is because the
answers became a bit more clickable. You
have maps, you have shopping carousels,
you have clickable cards. So I think the
clickability of the answers increased
and then the adoption increased
>> and that was around January.
>> Okay. I want to come back to this
question of is this good that Chat GPT
is sucking out all my content and giving
people answers and then sending me some
percentage of that. But I want to let's
not get into that yet. I want to talk
about just what kind of impact you can
have on having your stuff show up in
chat GPT. So I had the head of chat GPT,
Nick Turley, on the podcast recently
asked him, "What do you think of all the
stuff AOG?" He's like, "Don't don't
worry about any of that. Just write
awesome stuff. Create quality content.
it'll figure it out. It'll find the best
stuff. I imagine you very much disagree.
I imagine you have seen real impact
getting your stuff uh proactively into
these answer engines. Talk about just
the kind of impact you've seen and what
you and just your your reaction to that.
>> Yeah, I agree and disagree. But you
know, the way that I think about it is
anything can be optimized. You just need
to understand the underlying systems and
the rules of the game. And if you do
that, then you can optimize anything.
You can optimize algorithms, you can
optimize people, anything can be
optimized. Um what I think he probably
meant by that I mean he probably meant
two things. One is please don't spam my
product. Uh and two is if you do I will
see it and I will stop you from doing
that. So it's not a long-term robust
strategy to create spam just like it
wasn't a long-term robust strategy to
create spam on Google. Eventually Google
is going to say you shopping comparison
sites are making 100 million uh auto
autogenerated search pages and I don't
like it and I'm going to get rid of the
whole category. So, same thing with chat
GBT. Anything can be optimized, but if
you're spamming it, they'll see that and
they'll have a whole team looking at
that and then they'll change your
algorithm to uh prevent you from doing
that.
>> What kind of impact have you seen?
You've done work with a lot of
companies. We'll talk through a few
examples. Maybe share one uh to give us
context just like how much can you
impact this sort of thing where you show
up in say chatbt more often.
>> You can uh you can affect it a lot. So
uh specific example with web flow is we
are working with web flow on their SEO
on their content and we're seeing a lot
of wins on the answer optimization side.
So the specific things that we've done
there one is just traditional SEO. So
make landing pages for high search high
search volume keywords like uh you know
best no code website designer and you
then for free you'll get answer engine
optimization impact from that. So that's
just traditional SEO which works very
well for SEO.
>> I would say that sounds exactly the same
as regular SEO.
>> Yeah, I would say so I would say
everything that works in SEO works in
AEO but there are additional things uh
beyond SEO that also work in AEO. So
second thing and the way that I think
about AEO versus SEO is that the the
head and the tail are different. So the
head is different in that in order to
win something like what's the best
website builder. Even if Web Flow's URL
shows up number one in the citations,
they're not going to win the answer
because their URL showed up number one.
But in Google, they wouldn't they would
win if their if their blue link showed
up first, they would win. But that
that's not the case in the LM because
the LM is summarizing many citations.
And so you need to get mentioned as many
times as possible. So usually when you
and you ask something like what's the
best tool for X, the first answer will
be mentioned the most in the citations.
So that's very different from from
Google. And so for web flow we uh work
with them on uh YouTube videos, uh Vimeo
videos, getting mentioned in Reddit,
getting mentioned in other blogs, uh
affiliates, stuff like that. So tried a
bunch of stuff. Stuff that worked
especially well was just straight SEO.
Uh number one. Number two is YouTube
videos. And then the third is uh Reddit
optimization.
>> Okay. Okay. Wow. So, you're saying if
you if you can get to number one, if
when you ask what's the best website
builder and web flows at the top, that
doesn't actually drive them as much
traffic as simply being mentioned most
often across the summary.
>> Yes. And part of why that's interesting
is because if you're a when when uh
startups come to me and ask me for SEO
help, my first response is don't do it
at all. uh spending your time on
something else because you're not going
to be able to grow SEO early on as a uh
in search because you don't have enough
domain authority and it takes a while to
get domain authority and only once you
have domain authority can you rank and
so for Google it's usually something
that you do series A series B or later
you don't do it as soon as you start
because you can't win uh early on that's
not the case for answer engine
optimization because you can get
mentioned by a citation tomorrow and
start showing up immediately you can
have a Reddit thread you can have a
YouTube video, you can be mentioned on a
blog like, you know, a brand new YC
company launches, everyone's talking
about them. They could show up in an
answer tomorrow as a result of that. So,
early stage companies can win. They can
win quickly and they can win quickly and
anyone can win quickly by getting
mentioned as many times as possible by
the citations. So, that's that that's
what's different about the head. What's
different about the tail is that the
tail is larger in chat than in search.
So the average number of words I think
perplexity said this or somebody else
said it was around 25 words where versus
Google words it's around six words. So
the tail is just much much larger.
People are asking lots of follow-up
questions.
>> The tail the the prompt essentially the
question you're asking.
>> Yes. Uh, meaning that if you if if if
you map out all of the questions that
people ask, kind of like an SEO longtail
keywords, if you do longtail questions,
the size of the tail is larger, meaning
the amount of questions that are very
specific is larger, the, you know, the
share and the volume. And there's
probably uh questions that have never
been asked before and uh questions that
have never been searched before because
search can't support lots of really
specific super specific stuff whereas
chat is specifically made to ask a bunch
of follow-up questions and have a
conversation. And so there's all these
questions that have never been asked or
searched for before that are now being
asked and then you can win that. And
when I got started in SEO, it was
longtail SEO where you have a page for
every single keyword which doesn't work
anymore. But now the longtail is back in
chat. And if you know all those really
specific questions that people are
asking, you can also win that and you
can probably also win that early. And
I've seen uh examples of early stage
companies who just launched some really
specific AI enabled payment processing
API thing and they will show up and
they'll show up because they're
answering a question that's never been
uh answered before.
>> Are the leads that these answer engines
driving to companies actually valuable?
Are these like good quality leads for
B2B SAS especially?
>> They are significantly more valuable.
So, Web Flow, we saw a 6x conversion
rate in uh difference between LLM
traffic and uh Google search traffic.
>> Six times.
>> Six times. So, significantly more
qualified. I think that's probably for a
couple reasons. Uh probably it's because
you're so primed because you're having a
conversation with multiple follow-ups
and so there's so much intent that
you've built and you've probably really
narrowed in on what you want. So when
you're going somewhere, it's probably
highly qualified and so we're we're
seeing that it's just a much higher uh
conversion rate. Wow, this is so
interesting. Uh and it makes sense like
people trust JGBT to tell them the
answer and if you are the answer, you
have so much advantage. you like that is
what people want to know and then okay
cool thank you I'm going to go check
this out uh this all just makes sense
going back to the three levers you
shared essentially it's landing the
things that you see work in driving you
uh showing up more in these answer
engines uh landing pages YouTube videos
and Reddit is that right
>> those are some of them uh the other
things so I would I would break it up
into stuff on your site on-site and
off-site so on-site would be traditional
SEO the difference would be this long
tail. I would also say that the
difference is lots of follow-up
questions about does your product do
this thing? What are the use cases,
features, integrations, languages, like
tell me about your product and really
specific details about that and that's
on your site. And then the second group
would be offsite which is show up in all
the citations. Citations are comprised
of video uh UGC like Reddit and and Kora
affiliates dot dash Meredith is showing
up all over the place. glamour, good
housekeeping, it's like getting
mentioned there, blogs. Uh, so so it's
those two groups
>> and that all that all sounds very
similar to SEO. Showing up on other
people's pages, showing links from say
Reddit is always great. It's interesting
that Reddit is such a big deal. What's
going on there, do you think?
>> Okay, Reddit is one of the most
interesting things. It's uh hugely cited
in LMS and it's probably the number one
thing people are asking customers are
asking me is how do we optimize for
Reddit and uh this goes back to the head
of chatbt's question about please don't
spam my my product and um so Reddit is a
community where it's real opinions from
people authentic and it's heavily
managed by the community and the
community is very good at managing it
And so the obvious strategy for a growth
person is let's make a bunch of
automated spam and spam run it all over
the place and get my product to show up
everywhere. That that's the growth
mindset. Uh which makes sense. The
hustle mindset. So what are people
looking at? They're they're looking at
creating hundreds of fake Reddit
accounts uh pretending to be someone
that you're not. Like I have a single
person. I'm going to make a 100 Reddit
accounts. I'm going to auto post
comments and then like my own comments
and then build a trust score and then
show say everywhere that uh my uh my
product is the best product.
Fortunately, that doesn't work very
well, but that's the obvious strategy.
And so, we're seeing people trying to do
that. And we're also seeing those
accounts get banned, those comments get
deleted. And so, we're seeing people
trying to spam and being unsuccessful.
So, that that's one strategy. The other
strategy is the whole purpose of Reddit
is to post useful, high-quality,
authentic comments from real people. So,
uh, at Webflow, we we, uh, we have a
couple people at Web Flow going to
comments and saying, "This is my name.
This is where I work, and here's a
useful piece of information." So, the
strategy is find a thread that is a part
of a citation that you want to show up
in. Say who you are, say where you work,
and then give a useful piece of
information. And that works really well.
And that sounds simple if you're not in
the growth mindset of I need to scale
this to hundreds of comments, but you
don't actually need 10,000 comments. You
know, even five could be great. And that
scales perfectly well. So the the Reddit
strategy is the obvious strategy, which
is just just to be an actual user of
Reddit. Make an account, say who you
are, say where you work, and give a
useful answer. We had the early growth
leader from deal de on the podcast a
while ago and this is how they grew up
and how they grew initially uh before AI
even came around just going big on
Reddit and answering people's questions
and like hey happens to be deal can I
help you with this problem so that's
interesting uh it's interesting that
Reddit is what is keeping chatbt from
being spammed with stuff like it's not
that chatbt is stopping the spam it's
Reddit is just really good at that I
think that in a sense chat Chat GPT is
policing because chat GPT is running a
search. It's finding citations. There's
a search algorithm that's trying to
select which citations are useful. There
are people at Chat GPT who are tuning
their search algorithm to select which
sources they trust. I'm sure that
there's a search evaluation team saying,
"Do I like these citations? Yes. No. Is
Reddit showing up? I want it to show
up." So I think that there are actual
people at ChatGpt who are intentionally
configuring their algorithm to use
Reddit because it's trusted and if it
wasn't trusted they wouldn't use it.
Same with Google. Google has
specifically configured their search
algorithm to rank uh Reddit and Twitter
and Kora because they want uh user
generated content and if it wasn't good
content then they would change the
algorithm and they wouldn't they
wouldn't rank it. So I think that they
are policing it in a sense.
>> Got it. And all of this is post-training
searchoriented
uh features of of these models. It's not
data they are trained on. Is that right?
>> I would assume that the so there's the
core model and then there's rag. So the
core model is I'm looking at common
crawl and billions of web pages and then
I'm uh you know re retraining the model
and if you ask something like what's the
capital of California? It predicts the
next word which is Sacramento and that's
based on the core algorithm which is
next word prediction. Then there's rag
and rag basically means search retrieval
log meta generation. So I'm going to do
a search and then I'm going to summarize
the search. there there are these two
different things and so most of what I'm
describing is about the rag piece not
the core model piece to in to influence
the core model is probably extremely
hard and maybe you you will see the
impact a year later and it's probably
something you know some sort of obscure
thing that nobody would want to do like
make a million pages that say best
product for X is brand which I don't
think most people want to spend their
time on so I'm mostly focused on the
right side because that's the main thing
that's controllable and I think also the
LLM is is probably not going to say your
product if it didn't show up anywhere on
the rags. So, I think that's where most
of the interesting stuff is for from an
optimization perspective.
>> Cool. I Yeah, I didn't even think about
this side of it when we started talking
about this, but I think that's an
important thing to note is just this is
nothing to do with the training data.
This is post training once the model's
live, what it can do to find recent
information using rag, web search,
things like that. Okay, before we get
into how to actually do this step by
step, how to win at AEO, what are two or
three things that you think are
important for people to understand to be
successful in this world just broadly?
>> First thing is just recognizing that
this is related to search. So, it's LLM
plus rag. It's summarizing a set of
search results usually. So, LM plus rag
number one. Number two is topics. So in
search a landing page is targeting
hundreds of keywords which we talked
about on the last podcast. So I'm not
targeting one keyword like I was in
2007. I'm targeting a thousand keywords
and each landing page needs to target
that set of thousand keywords and that's
a topic. Same thing is true for for an
engine optimization. Each page is
targeting hundreds thousands maybe tens
of thousands of questions and so I want
to group all those questions which then
brings us into content. So how would I
rank? How would I get my URL to rank or
or other usual URLs being decided
whether or not they rank? They answer
all the questions. The more of the
questions that I answer, the better. So,
in Google search, if I have a landing
page about website builders, the more
that my page answers all of the subtopic
follow-up questions, the more likely I'm
to show up in Google search. Same with
chat. The more uh you answer all the
questions, the better. If you don't
answer a question, then you're probably
not going to show up. And if you answer
a question as follow-up question and
subtopic somebody else is not answering,
you're going to be more likely to show
up. So topics number two, the third is
question research. So how do I know
which questions people are asking and
that's actually pretty hard because in
search Google just tells you with their
ads API. They say this is the search
volume for this keyword. There's a truth
set from Google and chatb is not giving
us that at least not yet. Maybe when
they do ads they'll they'll give us more
access to search volume but there's no
truth set. So how do we know the
questions that people are asking? Uh,
one way would just be to take out my
search terms and change them into
questions. So, website builder, you can
assume that what's the best website
builder is probably a question that's
probably asked proportional to the
search volume for that keyword. So,
that's one this. But then I I mentioned
that the tail is larger and there's
parts of the tail that don't exist in
search. So, how do we know what the tail
looks like? And uh one strategy that you
can use is what are all the questions
people are asking you in your sales
calls, customer support on Reddit. Uh
mine all those questions that exist
somewhere else. Probably those similar
those same questions are being asked in
chat. And so that's another way to to
find questions.
The last is citation optimization or
offsite.
So uh again the LM is summarizing rag.
So how do I show up with as many
citations as possible? And you can break
up the citations into different groups.
My site video, YouTube, Vimeo, UGC,
Coror Core, Reddit, uh tier one
affiliates like dot dash, tier 2
affiliates, blogs. Um so it's it's it's
breaking up all those different
citations and having specific strategies
for each group.
>> What is dot dash exactly?
>> Dash Meredith is a large media
conglomerate with Good Housekeeping, All
Recipes, Investipedia.
It's the It's probably the most
successful SEO company of all time. And
it's also one of the most cited,
probably the most cited in LMS as well.
>> Wow. Did not know this. As you talk, I
think about like if you go to Google, no
offense, Mr. SEO, but if you go to
Google these days, it's just like a
bunch of unuseful stuff. Just like hyper
SEOed content. Do you think chatbt will
be able to avoid that fate where it's
just a bunch of hyper SEOed content that
is not what you actually want?
>> Probably. And what you're saying with
SEO is that everyone's rewriting each
other's content. Non-experts rewriting
each other's content. So I got a content
scoring tool which then looks at all the
results in Google and it says these are
all the things that the other articles
are saying and then this is what you
haven't said yet. So here are
recommendations for how to be more
typical. And then everyone rewrites each
other's article. And then uh all one
other interesting thing is that the
majority of landing pages uh drive no
impact. So we did an analysis where one
out of 20 landing pages drive roughly
85% of all your traffic. So 19 out of 20
landing pages drive little to no
traffic. Which means if I want to get if
if I want to get ROI, I need to spend a
small amount of money on a large number
of pages. And so then you get a
non-expert to say, uh, rewrite this
other person's article because that's
cheaper than hiring someone from the New
York Times to write your, you know, your
your article about what's the best
payroll management software. But if you
knew the few things that would work, the
few landing pages that would work and
you wrote them really well, then you
could push all that money to that one
page, which is what we try to do. But,
uh, right now it's people rewriting each
other's content. So Google has not
solved that yet. That's probably a very
hard problem to solve. Will they ever
solve that? Probably. Will chat GBT ever
solve that? Probably. How I would solve
that would be uh one one concept would
be information gain. So, did you say
something that somebody else didn't say?
Two is how typical are you? Are you so
typical that I think that you're a
rewritten version of somebody else's
content? potentially Google has eat uh
expertise, authority, trustworthiness,
which actually I don't see having an
effect uh unfortunately, but it could
and I could say, well, this person's an
expert, this person's a certified
financial adviser, rank them higher. And
I'm actually not seeing that, but they
could increase the weight of that. So,
these are all potential solutions, but
I'm sure that the reason why it has not
been solved yet, why everyone's
rewriting each other's articles, it's
probably just hard to build an algorithm
to solve that, but will they ever solve
that? probably this algorithm or
heristic you just shared is so
interesting uh because it's helpful for
just what is good content say with a
newsletter or a podcast uh info gain and
is a typical are you adding something
new to the conversation and is this
unique uh I think it's a really good
strategy for just producing great
newsletters and podcasts and and all
that all the content in the world
>> yes and ideally did you do original
research and do you have some domain
expertise
>> and did you mention that in the in the
content
>> this This is a this is a great uh
heristic for just content in general,
which is exactly what you want these
algorithms to be looking for. So, the
alignment is there. This episode is
brought to you by Great Question, the
all-in-one UX research platform loved by
teams at Brex, Canva, into it, and more.
One of the most common things I hear
from PMs and founders that I talk to is,
"I know I should be speaking to
customers more, but I just don't have
the time or the tools." That's exactly
the gap Great Question fills. Great
question makes it easy for anyone on
your team, not just researchers, to
recruit participants, run interviews,
send surveys, test prototypes, and then
share it all with powerful video clips.
It's everything you need to put your
customers at the center of your product
decisions. With a prompt as simple as,
"Why did users choose us over
competitors?" Great question not only
reveals what your customers have already
shared, but it also makes it incredibly
easy to ask them in the moment for fresh
insights from the right segment. Picture
this. Your road map's clear. Your team's
aligned. You're shipping with confidence
and you're building exactly what your
customers need. Head to
greatquest.com/lenny
to get started.
Let's give people an actual actionable
plan to start executing on this and
winning essentially at AO. Uh if it's
helpful to use my newsletter as an
example, like how would I show up more
often in Chat GPT or Gemini or whatever
or if it's a B2B SAS company, whatever
is easiest. Let's just talk about how to
actually do this.
>> First, I would figure out which
questions I want to rank for. how I
would figure out which questions I want
to rank for. I would take my search
data. I would maybe take my paid search
data like what are my money terms? What
are my competitors money terms? So, if
I'm rippling, what is deal.com bidding
all their paid search on? Then I would
transform those into questions. And
actually, you can just give those
keywords to chatbt and say make these
into questions and it does a pretty good
job. So, take your competitor's paid
search data or mine or your own, put it
in chat, get other questions. That's
step one. Step two is then track them.
So put them in a in an AEO tracker in a
in a answer tracker.
Third thing would be who is showing up
as citations and then have a strategy
for each of those different groups of
citations.
Uh the third would be landing make your
own landing pages. So what are the kinds
of landing pages that are appearing? Is
it a listical? Is it a category page? Is
it an article tool page? It's like
figure out what page type seem to be
showing up the most and then you make
your own page for that.
How do you have your page rank? Answer
all the follow-up questions. So, what
are all the follow-up questions that
someone might ask? You could go back to
your search data and look for groups and
themes of your uh keywords that are in
your uh SEO topic. Same thing for for
AEO topic.
Then on the uh offsite, so different
strategies for each of those groups. And
I would say that uh depending on the
company, paying an affiliate to mention
you, that's pretty easy if you have the
money. So if you want to be the best
credit card, you pay Forbes and then
you're the best credit card. So that's
strategy one. Expensive, easy,
controllable.
The uh YouTube Vimeo strategy is also
actually pretty easy because there's no
community saying, "I don't like your
YouTube video." You make a YouTube
video, you do whatever you want. Maybe
people view it, maybe they don't, but
you can make a YouTube video or or a
Vimeo video. And the interesting thing
with this, especially for B2B, is that
uh YouTube, Vimeo, other video sites,
the kinds of things people make videos
for are food, traveling, fun, beauty,
there's not that many videos about AI
powered payment processing APIs, as
interesting as that is, but it's a a
great money term. So, if you make a
video for these really specific high
LTV, maybe non-glamorous
keywords, questions, topics. Uh that's
actually a big opportunity.
And then uh Reddit. So I mentioned with
Web Flow what we did, which is just make
a Reddit account, say who you are, say
where you work, and give a useful
answer. That one is a little bit
trickier because the community might
say, "I don't like your answer." So you
can't guarantee that your comment is
there, but it is easy. So I would do
that that group. Oh, and then uh
experiment design. So experiment design
and seeing what works.
So SEO and AEO are both interesting in
that the majority of the information and
best practices are are not correct. Uh
and the reason why is because people
don't do analysis. Somebody will say
something and then it will get repeated
and everyone and then it becomes best
practice and no one ever did analysis.
So you you do all the stuff that I just
mentioned. Do an experiment and see if
it worked. Maybe half the stuff I said
works, maybe half it doesn't. Do your
own experiment. Most best practices,
most blog posts are uh not correct. So,
how do you set up an experiment? You get
your questions, you turn tracking on,
give it a couple weeks, make your
changes, have a test group, have a
control group, intervene on the test
group, make your changes, see if the
chart went up, see if the control group
did not, and now you know your
particular strategy worked. So, I would
definitely do experiments and I would
not assume that stuff you read online is
is correct. And then you need a team.
So, who's your team? Probably your team
is your SEO team or your SEO agency or
your SEO consultant. Probably hopefully
they can do this stuff. Uh, and then,
however, what I think is hard to hire
for is the uh is the off-site stuff. So,
most SEO people are not going to be
amazing at creating YouTube videos and
Reddit strategy. So, you might need a
different person for that. That might be
a community generalist marketing person.
So, it would basically be your SEO team.
Please now do answer engine
optimization. and then marketing
community team, please uh help me show
up in in more citations.
>> Wow. Okay, that is incredibly valuable.
Thank you for sharing all that. I
imagine some of this is like like you're
just giving away a lot of amazing advice
for free here. Uh thank you first of
all. I imagine there's like a layer
there's only so far you can go on your
own and so eventually it's like okay we
really need help and that's where a team
like yours comes in. Let me ask a few
questions here to follow up. One is this
tracker concept. So what is this
tracker? can track like how often you
show up. Say a lady's newsletter shows
up in answers for the questions that I'm
targeting.
>> Yeah. So there's answer tracking which
is kind of like keyword tracking. So
keyword tracking would be best growth
podcast and you put that in uh keyword
tracking tool. There's a hundred of
them. They're all the same and you see
whether or not what what you rank uh
maybe you rank hopefully you rank number
one.
Now in uh answers it's very different
but it's uh related. So if you ask the
same question, you will have different
answers each time.
>> Uh if you ask a question, there's
there's uh different answers per run.
And so chat GBT is basically calculating
a distribution of all the you know
potential answers it would give. And
depending on when you ask it, it's
basically like a weighted random sample.
And so you're going to get different
answers.
You you also have question variance. So
you can ask different versions of the
same question. And you might show up in
one, you might not show up in another.
Then there's different surfaces. There's
perplexity, there's Gemini, there's
chatbt, there's meta and so these
surfaces have different answers and so
you essentially need to create a share
of voice for across all these different
things and you know like a distribution.
So how often am I showing up? What's my
average rank and that's answer tracking.
So then where do you get answer tracking
and answer tracking is essentially an an
evolution of keyword tracking. So
there's uh we have a page with uh 60
different answer tracking tools but it's
ultimately just like keyword tracking.
It's all the same thing roughly. And so
pick one of the 60. We have answer
tracking. Uh we're building answer
tracking. There's 59 other options.
They're probably all pretty good.
Probably all pretty similar. Uh but but
pick one. Uh my general suggestion is
pick the one that pick the cheapest one
that does what you need. Uh just like
keyword tracking, you can only, you
know, there's not a premium version of
keyword tracking. You rank number three
or you don't. So pick the keyword
tracker that is the cheapest that does
what you want. Same with answer
tracking. Uh, and so then when I'm doing
an experiment, put your answers in,
track them, see a chart over time, see
your average rank, how often you showing
up, and what's your average rank, and
then you make a change, and then
hopefully you go up.
>> Amazing. Uh, I love this term voice
share. Uh, I never heard that before.
Uh, makes sense. The L like percentage
time you're showing up in LMS. Is there
is there an LLM? Is it just like chatbt?
Is like Google equivalent out to Chat
GBT? How do you recommend people think
about say Gemini or Clotter or
Perplexity and others? So,
interestingly, there are similar
foundational algorithms across all of
these. Like, they're all using search.
They're all using search and they're all
using LMS, which you know, foundational
algorithms are all the same. The results
are actually pretty different. So, we're
we're doing a study. We're seeing that
Google and Bing are not that similar
search engines. We're seeing that chat
GBT citations and Google search results
are actually not that similar. uh
perplexity is act interestingly similar
to more more similar to Google than uh
than chatbt that we we did a study
looking at thousands of questions and
saw the uh citation overlap with Google
search results was around 35% for chatb
and Google so not that much perplexity
was around 70% but essentially they're
all similar algorithms but with very
different citations and and results so
then look at which surfaces have the
most traffic and then track those you
probably don't need to track all of them
but um look look across all those. But
you but you you do need to look at your
share of voice or the percent of time
you show up across all these services.
You need to ask the question multiple
times and you need to ask the variance
of the question to truly know how
frequent you're showing up. Considering
that chatpt they're going to hit
something like a billion weekly active
users in the near future like do you
need to worry about claude and Gemini
and perplexity? Like is the traffic
there meaningful? I know it is you know
a lot of people but like how important
is it to focus on those other LMS? Well,
the way that I would answer that is I
believe AOL was the one of the largest
search engines early on and Google was
not. And so we could ask in 1999 or
whatever, should we just focus on AOL
search and and Yahoo search? Do we
really need to worry about Google? And
the answer is we don't actually know.
It's very early. We don't know who's
going to win. Uh I do think that chat
GBT for sure is going to be large. Will
Perplexity or Claude or these others
compete with them? Probably. just like
search. I think that there will probably
be multiple winners and probably you'll
need to optimize for several. I don't
think that you'll need to optimize for
10, but there'll probably be around
three or so that you'll want to that
that will win uh that you want to
optimize for.
>> Okay. By the way, I want to make it
clear. I I love Claude. I use Claude and
CHPT equally roughly. Uh I didn't want
to make it sound like CHP is the only
product people use. Okay. How does this
strategy change depending on the kind of
company you are? Say you're a B2B SAS
company or a consumer product. Does
anything in these seven steps change
significantly?
>> Let's take B2B for example. The first
thing is that the citations that are
being mentioned are going to be quite
different. So, uh, citation optimization
will vary quite a bit.
>> Just to clarify what you just said, what
do you mean when you say citation
strategy is different.
>> Meaning the citations that show up for
B2B versus marketplaces are are
different kinds of citations. So for B2B
it might be
like Tech Radar shows up a ton when I
ask questions. I've never read Tech
Radar, but for some reason it shows up
all the time. I'm I'm sure it's great,
but uh Tech Radar is showing up a ton
for for B2B for whatever reason. In
commerce it's not going to be that. It's
going to be Glamour and Cosmopolitan.
For marketplaces, it'll be Eater and uh
you know Yelp, Trip Adviser, place like
that. So So the kinds of citations that
show up are different. Um, most of the
stuff that I've been talking about is
specific to B2B stuff that's different
for commerce. So, uh, for most B2B
questions, the answers are not
clickable. There's nothing to click on.
And so, if you actually want to measure
the impact, you cannot just look at last
touch referral traffic. You have to see
whether or not you showed up in the
answer with tracking. And then you also
need to ask the user, how did you hear
about us post conversion to actually
know the impact. It's so it's harder to
track for for B2B. Uh also for B2B,
you're probably deciding which payroll
management software to use after 50
touch points with a brand. It's not
going to be you just search for
something, you suddenly spend $100,000
on payroll management software. So
that's B2B. Commerce is different. So
commerce actually now has more clickable
cards like you would in a Google. So if
you ask what's the best uh TV for for
apartments, there are actual shoppable
cards. uh those shoppable cards are
showing multiple sellers. Those sellers
have rich snippets schema is important.
The number of reviews are important. So
it's actually quite different. You can
look at last touch referral traffic to
get a good sense about the number of
conversions that you're getting for
commerce similar with uh with
restaurants and hotels and local
marketplaces uh similar there. And then
I would say early stage is also
different. So I mentioned earlier early
stage my recommendation is don't do SEO
at all. For uh for answer engine
optimization definitely do AEO and only
do citation optimization and longtail.
Don't do any of the mid uh SEO stuff.
Just get cited and answer really
specific questions. It's so interesting
that so much of this is just like having
showing up as that little tag/pill in
the answer because uh like it's obvious
now that I think about it that's the
only way someone will get to your site
from an LLM is just like clicking that
okay let me go read this article.
>> Yes. But what they will do is they will
open a new tab and they will type in the
brand name and they will go to Google
and then they'll click on your domain
and you will think that it was branded
Google search when it wasn't. or they'll
open up a new tab and they will type in
your domain and they'll go directly to
your domain and you will falsely think
that it was direct traffic.
>> What is your coming back to a question I
kind of raised at the beginning. So for
my newsletter, the fact that they're
sucking up all this content like I don't
even know how much and sending me some
percentage traffic. Do you have any I
don't know just sense of like is this
good? Is this what I if you were running
my newsletter, would you encourage all
these LLMs to suck up my stuff and then
be like, "Oh, yeah, you could check it
out more newsletter if you want."
>> Yes. And I would give the same answer
that uh Brian Balffor gave on your
previous episode on this, which is that
it's not your choice whether to play the
game. Uh you are playing the game
whether you want to or not. So, you
might as well try to show up. Uh if if
you just say don't look at any of my
data, then you cannot show up and your
competitors will. Now what you can do is
you can say I don't want you to train on
my data. So you can index my site but
please don't train on my data and they
have different user agents for that and
different bots. So you can just say and
we're building a a web flow app to block
training but not uh indexation or you
can just put in your robots.txt this
training bot not allowed index bot you
are allowed. So if you're concerned
about that I I I would suggest that. I
think probably a lot of people will do
that, but saying you can't index my site
at all, that doesn't make sense to me.
>> Such a good point because uh my I don't
I don't know if I have competitors in
this exact space, but basically they
would show up instead and then I lose
all that traffic.
>> Such a good point. Okay, let me come
back to the steps you shared just to see
if there's something here that's worth
diving into a little further. So, this
is essentially how to be more successful
showing up in LM responses. One is
figure out what questions you want to
rank for. And you could do this by
looking at what your competitors are
advertising and their paid ads and
things like that. Uh just like look at
the terms asked almost chatbt or claude.
Turn these into questions people would
ask to find these terms. Then set up a
tracker to see just how you're doing
today. Like how often are you showing
up? There's a million trackers. You have
a link will link to to check these out.
Then you look at who is showing up
today. Where are they being taken today?
use that to inform landing pages that
you create to answer those questions
better. And it's an you you make it very
clear that it's really important not to
just answer that main question, but also
follow-up questions. Then there's
off-site stuff. So get into affiliates
like Mdash,
uh YouTube, Reddit, Kora sounds like or
the core and then run an experiment. So
you look at this tracker and then you
how let me actually ask this uh and the
next step is just set up a team. But
just to come back to this step, how do
you set up an experiment that isn't just
like a before after? How do you do a
control group situation?
>> Yeah. So what I would do is I would take
a 100 different questions. Half of them
I will intervene, half of them I won't.
Or let's say let's take 200 questions.
So 100 of the questions I'm not going to
do anything. So that's my control group.
And we are seeing a fair amount of
variance in answers just without doing
anything at all. So you definitely want
a control group. And also we're seeing
people, you know, people are using LMS
more and LM traffic is going up. So you
definitely need a control group,
especially in in optimization. So
control group is don't touch it at all.
Leave it. Leave it as it is. That's a
control group. Test group would be I'm
going to now comment on Reddit threads.
So let's test that. Or I'm now going to
make a YouTube Vimeo video or I'm now
going to pay Forbes Adviser to say that
I'm the best credit card. Maybe break
those up into a few different buckets.
Track them. have a couple weeks before,
couple weeks after compare against
control group and then and then the
stuff that went up when the control
group did not worked and the stuff that
didn't did not and then reproduce it. So
reproducibility is very important and uh
my background is in academic research
and it's common to do a study that
cannot be reproduced and so for
something to truly be accepted with
within an academia it needs to be
reproducible. Meaning multiple people
have done this study and reproduce that
thing over and over again. And
especially in SEO, it's common for
something to change and you think that
it was this thing that caused it and
it's actually not. And you just assume
forever that that uh works. So
reproducibility is very important. Try
to do that study multiple times. Try to
get studies from other people and if you
know if it works 10 times then it
probably works. And the stuff that and
this comes back to the waste problem.
Most work is wasted in SEO. Most work is
wasted in a yield. So how do you know
what's not wasted? You do an experiment.
You don't assume that what you read
online is true. You do your own
experiment and then you reproduce it
multiple times and keep doing the stuff
that works and don't do the stuff that
doesn't. It feels like such a big deal
to win at AEO. Just coming back to this
idea that like people are coming to
ChatGpt Collabi looking for an answer.
If you're that answer, I feel like that
could just make or break your company.
Uh it feels like even more important
than SEO just getting this right.
>> I would say that where I want to get the
most conversions possible. How big is
the channel? The channel is not as big
as search. The search is definitely
larger, but it's it's it is a
substantial channel now. And uh Web
Flow, they get 8% of their signups from
from LM. So you it's now your one of
your top channels. So it's large. It's
not the largest channel. It's not the
number one channel. paid is probably the
number one channel, but it's definitely
a substantially large channel and one
worth optimizing for
>> and as you said, probably growing over
time.
>> Yes.
>> Okay, let me zoom out a little bit and
let me just ask you this. What do you
think are maybe the most surprising or
underdised
topics when it comes to AI and SEO and
AEO that we haven't already talked
about? The first thing is that there's
significant misinformation on on AI and
on AEO and and it's pretty extreme. It's
unusually the percent of misinformation
to correct information is is pretty
substantial. So one example is every 2
years there's news articles about how
Google searches is going to die or it is
dying because there's a new thing. So
that's happening right now with with uh
AI overviews and with AEO. Google's
going down, which is not true. Before
that, it was Tik Tok search. So everyone
is using Tik Tok now. Jenz is using Tik
Tok. They're never going to use SEO. SEO
is going to be dead. And so you really
need to focus on Tik Tok search, which
is not false, but it's it's not untrue.
It's but it's not taking share away from
Google. It's just a new service. And
then before that, it was Instagram. And
then before that, it was Facebook. And
it was YouTube. And people do search and
discover on Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube.
Uh how but it doesn't take away from
Google search. It adds on top of it.
These are all new channels. So Google's
slice of the pie stays the same. The pie
gets bigger. And so misinformation about
Google going down. Google is not going
down. Google published something
recently. Their VP of search explicitly
said, I looked at our the traffic that
we're sending to publishers and it is
not down. It's up slightly. So it is not
true that Google search is going down.
and most of the news information about
that is saying that it's going down. So
that's the first surprising thing. The
second surprising thing is tooling.
And I've never seen a channel where
these extremely expensive tools that
essentially do commodity tasks. So
imagine if I said, "I'm going to charge
you $50,000 for keyword tracking." You
would say, "Well, of course that's
absurd. It's keyword tracking. I could
write this in a day." Uh, no one would
do that. But for answer engines, it's
mysterious and people don't really know
how it's working. And also, the slope of
the growth curve is so significant that
I'm seeing people spend huge amounts of
money on what are essentially, you know,
keyword tracking uh or commodities.
That's the second thing. The third thing
is the the growth curve of the channel.
And uh we did a a Reforge AEO webinar a
year ago
and it there was excitement and then it
died. And there was very little
excitement about it. This was in June
and then people didn't really care. They
were intrigued intellectually by it, but
they didn't care because they didn't see
the impact from that. So there's
essentially very little interest between
July and January and then suddenly in
January it's just skyrocketing. So you
know it's it's chachi launches, people
are very interested and then it's not
not that interesting for growth people
and then there's this little spike in
June and then it's like this which is
usually not what you see with a with a
new channel. So the slope of the curve
is is unusually steep and the shape of
the uh curve is is is also very unusual.
Uh the the last is that a lot of people
do think that SEO and AEO are different.
Uh and and they're not different. Uh I
think probably part of that is because
it sounds great to say that there's this
new channel. it's completely different
and I'm an expert and I have a tool to
sell you and you know it's totally
unique and uh you know all these other
tools are not not not relevant in
reality it's actually there there's
quite a bit of overlap there is the
difference of the citation optimization
the head is different and the tail is
different but the core uh the core
technology is pretty similar so those
are probably the most most surprising
things this piece about January being
the inflection point you mentioned that
it was because references started
showing up more prominently is that the
big change
>> I think it's increased increase of
adoption of LMS by people. So it's just
actually growing more and then the
clickability and I am seeing you are
seeing now this large increase of actual
clicks probably before you got no clicks
even if you showed up an answer. So the
clickability of the answer has increased
especially for things like commerce and
local and hotels because they have these
rich modules where you can click on
stuff and go somewhere which was not
true before that and I think people are
just using uh LMS more. Uh, Ethan, let
me just say I'm learning so much from
this conversation. What a fun thing. Uh,
I could see it's just like clear how
much you love this stuff and just how
nerdy and deep you get into it. It's
just fun to talk to someone that's so
deep and knowledgeable about all these
things. So, thank you for sharing all
this with us. I'm going to go in a
slightly different direction. There's
this whole world of AI content. People
generating content with AI, generating
landing pages, just like, oh my god, SEO
is never going to just like just
generate all this stuff. AI is going to
make all this stuff easier. You guys did
a really big study on how that works,
whether it's a good idea to generate
content with AI. Can you just talk about
what you learned from that and how
people should think about AI in
generating content?
>> Yes. So, I remember when chat GBT
launched and Brian Balffor posted on
LinkedIn, what do people think that is
going to happen from uh ChatGpt and AI?
And my my immediate response is spam.
So, just lots and lots of spam,
especially SEO spam. And then there was
a whole industry around AI generated
content. And um and I knew immediately
that it wouldn't work. And the reason
why I knew it wouldn't work and when I
say AI generated content, I mean
automated content with no human in the
loop. So I think that the future of
content is clearly AI assisted. Like
clearly you and I will be using AI to
help us write. So it's not no AI at all,
but it's not 100% generated with AI. I
immediately knew that it wouldn't work.
Why did I know that? I knew that because
I created spam in 2007 and I knew what
that what Google did about it and how
and I knew the exact same thing was
going to happen. So what I did in 2007
is I and all the other shopping
comparison people uh comparison people
scraped all each other's content reviews
chopped it up scraped content 100
million search pages snippets and uh and
it worked really well and then it
stopped working and then all those
companies disappeared and that that was
exactly what's going to happen with AI
generated content and so uh from the
beginning I've I've not focused on AI
generated content many people have and
uh we But I don't know. So maybe it does
work. There's lots of case studies about
it working. So let's do a study. Let's
do an analysis. So we took uh we looked
at both Google and at chat GBT where we
took thousands of searches and thousands
of questions and we put those searches
into Google search. We put those
questions into chat and chat GBT and
then we looked at the citations or the
Google search results. Then we looked at
an AI detector. So we used surfer surfer
SEO's AI detector. Now when I tell
people this they say well you can't
detect AI. So then we evaluated the the
efficacy and the accuracy of the AI
detector. So we did that by generating
thousands of AI generated articles and
it was very predictive. And then we
looked at real articles. We did that two
different ways. One way is we write real
articles and the other is we took a
random sample of a 100,000
URLs from common crawl over the last 5
years and then we looked at the AI
detector before chatbt was launched. So
it necessarily was content not created
by a human and then the false positive
rate was around 8%. So basically the AI
detector is very accurate. So we took
that then we ran it on the content. So
then what we saw was was around 10 to
12% of content in Google search and in
chat GPT are AI generated 90% are not
and we ran a correlation analysis
showing the exact same thing. So we
essentially did a very rigorous study
showing that AI content doesn't does not
work. AI assisted content edited is
great. Uh we we we do that sometimes
other people do that. That is clearly
the future of content. So that that does
work and should work and that's good. uh
but purely 100% AI generated does not
work. So then the second thing that we
did was we found that this was
unexpected but we found that there's
more AI generated content on the
internet than human generated content.
So back to the common crawl study we we
looked at 100,000 different URLs over
the past 5 years and then you can see
this curve where AI generated is now
higher than human created. So there's
more AI generated content on the
internet than human generated content
which is kind of disturbing. So then
let's say that AI generated content did
work. If AI generated content worked,
then everyone would do it. Just like in
2007 shopping comparison sites, if I can
scrape my content, why would I pay
anyone to write it? I'll just scrape it
from you and I'll chop it up. So then
everyone will do that. And then it will
go from most content is AI generated to
almost all of the content is AI
generated. Then what will happen if that
works is that Google now becomes a
search engine for chat GBT responses. So
if Google's a search engine for chat GBT
responses, there's no reason for Google
to exist. Just go to chatbt, which is
the exact same thing that happened in
2007. Google said, I see all these
shopping comparison search engines
showing up in my search results. So I am
essentially a search engine for search
engines. Uh I should be showing the TV
in my results. I shouldn't be showing
other vertical search engines. So I'm
going to get rid of them and I'm just
going to go straight to the product.
Same thing will be we true for chat GBT.
Now for chat GBT what let's say that
chat GBT ranks its own derivatives in
its citations. So then you have this
infinite loop of derivatives. So I go to
chat GBT I say generate 10 articles. I
put those articles into the citations
and then I say summarize these citations
that were derivative and then I keep on
doing derivatives of derivatives and you
have an infinite loop of derivatives and
now AI is summarizing itself.
We uh there's a paper about this called
model collapse. So again there's the
core algorithm and then there's the rag
piece. So the core algorithm uh a group
did a study showing model collapse which
was what if you feed in AI derivatives
into the model and train on your own
derivatives train the core model
derivatives and then what happened was
you had all these problems
hallucinations things break very
quickly. Okay so then we did a study on
what if you feed derivatives into the
rag piece. So
uh generate 10 derivatives put that in
rank summarize that and then generate 10
more and then summarize my
summarizations infinite loop of
derivatives what happens and so what
happens is there's a there's a wisdom of
the crowd the is summarizing the opinion
of many people so if you ask a question
like what's the best flavor of ice cream
there's not one answer there's thousands
of opinions and so the is summarizing
these many many opinions and there's
wisdom of the crowd the wisdom of the
crowd basically says uh if you take the
average of a large group of people,
their average response will be better
than the best single individual in the
group. And so it's better to have more
diversity of opinions, wisdom of the
crowd. So what happens to the uh to the
infinite loop of derivatives? You
essentially converge on one opinion. So
if you ask what's the best flavor of ice
cream, it will eventually say it's
vanilla and it's only vanilla and
there's no other flavor of ice cream.
And so that's a simple example, but if
you feed in derivatives of derivatives
into the model, you will basically take
the wisdom of the crowd and that will
shrink and you'll have a single opinion
on everything, which is really bad. So
that's what happens if AI content uh
100% unassisted AI content works. I'm
afraid of this world where everything is
trained on AI and AI is trained on AI
and generating AI and then just like
nothing is trusted. And I love how it's
interesting just how much of the
incentives are driving this. Like if
Chat GBT was finding this valuable, this
is what people do and then just kind of
goes off the rails. So there's just like
some team there that is keeping this
from happening. How do you think this
evolves? Like if you were them, what
would you do over the next few years to
keep things high quality and not drive
these perverse incentives?
>> So I would identify what the perverse
incentives might be and uh AI generated
content is one of them. The second thing
is I think that LMS and search are going
to converge. And so you're seeing that
with Google search where they're having
LLM AI overview. You're seeing that with
LMS where they're incorporating maps and
shopping carousels and it's converging
on search. I think it'll converge on a
single experience. So that's the first
thing. Figure out what
2007 Ethan would do to create spam and
and make sure that he doesn't do that
like AI generate content or or uh scrape
content. That would be the second thing.
And the third thing is there's all these
other interesting features that use
cases that LMS can be great for. So LMS
could be great for remembering
everything that you've ever asked. It
could be good for personalizing stuff
specifically to Lenny. Uh one uh
interesting use case that I think will
eventually come would be I say plan a
trip to San Francisco and decisions are
made for you without any intervention. I
have this wonderful EA named Jen and I
say, "Jen, I'm going to Miami. Please
just do everything for me." And she does
everything for me. She she knows me. She
knows my preferences. She knows that I
want a ocean view and I want a
restaurant with music. She does all that
and I don't have to intervene. AI can
essentially do that eventually and that
would do that because it would deeply
understand you. It would remember
everything about you. It would have
context. It would have a reasoning and
then it would be able to do make all
these decisions without your without
your intervention which would be
autonomous agents. So I think that
that's also another very interesting uh
place for someone like me to uh to
optimize for as well. Yeah, I was just
going to say just imagine not even being
told this is what you're choosing like
oh and go check out subscribe to the
best newsletter out there and you know
if you're up there uh the good things
will happen. Wow, what a wild world. Is
there anything else that we haven't
covered that you think would be helpful
to folks that are trying to get better
at this stuff, try to take the first
steps down this road of AEO?
>> Yes, my the most exciting topic which is
help center optimization and support.
>> Sweet. So, I mentioned that people in
chat are asking follow-up questions.
They're looking for tools. Do you have
this feature, this use case, this
integration?
And that frequently can be answered in
help center. And usually, you would not
have an SEO team and say, we really want
you guys to focus on the help center.
But in chat, since you're there's all
these questions about can you do this
thing, can you fulfill my use case? Uh,
a help center is actually a great place
to do that. And so I think how can you
optimize the help center? So number one
is it's frequently on a subdomain. For
whatever reason, subdomains don't work
well as subdirectories. So move it to a
subdirectory. Number one. Number two is
make sure that you're cross-linking
well. So usually
uh you do not have optimized internal
links. So link from help center page to
help center page. Make sure there's less
cross linking. The third is you probably
have help center content about the head,
but the tail you probably don't have any
help center content for. So, an example
of this is I was looking for I wanted to
track our sales calls and look to see
who was in the meeting and what the
sentiment was and I wanted to put that
into Looker. So, I said which meeting
transcription tool
integrates with Looker and the answer is
none of them. But you could use Otter
because Otter has a Zapier integration.
You could send a zap of the meeting, put
it into BigQuery and then do Looker on
top of that. But there wasn't a help
center article about that because it's a
very obscure use case, but it's not a
zero use case. And so the tail, there's
going to be a bunch of questions in the
tail that you may not have help center
articles for. So again, uh what are the
questions in sales calls? What are the
questions that you're seeing customer
support having pages for that? I might
even open up to the community. Anyone
can ask anything cuz the community will
then fill in the tail uh and then answer
those. And again, in many cases, there
might be nobody talking about this at
all. So, you could be the only citation
for this and then win that uh tale of
questions.
>> Are there any help desk uh I don't know,
system software that are just making
this easier yet? Or you think that's an
opportunity for say zenesk or intercom?
>> I think probably all of them should work
perfectly well. I think that the only
thing you need to do is cross linking
and subdirectory rather than subdomain,
which probably most of them do. So, I
think that they should all work for
free. I think that the main thing you
would want to do would be again open it
up to the community, make sure that you
fill in the tail, but probably all those
tools should be good for this.
>> Well, with that, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. Got five
questions for you Ethan. Are you ready?
>> I'm ready.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Number one is emotional intelligence.
And uh people talk about the concept of
emotional intelligence, but there's
actual research in psychology around
that. I believe it was published in the
'8s, but there's a really good book that
summarizes the foundational research
around emotional intelligence and uh
it's very useful when uh when building
relationships and communicating with
people to understand their emotions. So
that's the first one uh and doing growth
because growth is you know getting
people to use your stuff. And so if you
have frameworks to inform how people
will use your things then you can be a
more effective growth person which
brings me to my second book which is
Chelini's persuasion book. uh Robert
Galdini does a bunch of books around
persuasion, but again there's frameworks
for how to persuade somebody to sign up,
buy something. And so he breaks down his
framework for that. And again, it's
based on psychology. And I think
especially in growth, there's all kinds
of psychology research and behavioral
economics research to inform tests. And
if you just read thinking fast and slow,
persuasion, emotional intelligence, you
can basically take those frameworks and
apply it to growth in all kinds of
different uh ways. And then the last is
how to measure anything. So how to
measure anything is about measuring
things that are not immediately obvious
to to measure. They give this example of
they wanted to measure how good an
orchestra conductor was and they could
survey or they could see the number of
standing ovations for each uh orchestra
conductor. And the more standing
ovations probably means it's this this
better one. And that you don't need to
survey people. But much of growth and
and business is things that are not
immediately obvious for how to measure.
But anything could be measured. And so
that's my uh third recommendation.
>> Is there a favorite recent movie or TV
show you've really enjoyed?
>> I don't really watch TV, but I watch two
different groups of things. I watch uh
really aggressive sports. So I really
like Michael Jordan documentary, Last
Dance. Uh I like Lance Armstrong
documentaries about how aggressive and
confrontational he is. And I love
watching UFC. I like extreme aggression
and and intensity. The other group of
stuff that I like to watch are climbing
documentaries.
So, anything that uh Alex Hunnel, Jimmy
Chin uh do, I watch all that, which is
the exact opposite of aggressive sports.
So, it's zen, being present, slow and
steady craftsmanship, but this is sort
of how I approach my work, which is
extreme intensity and aggressiveness,
and then the uh zen craftsmanship uh
being present. I love uh how this
explains why people love working with
you and why you're good at this is uh
like this competitiveness and also just
like the super nerdiness to get really
knowledgeable about how all this stuff
works. And then uh I didn't think about
the zen element of it. Just like staying
calm throughout it all.
>> Flow. Flow state.
>> Flow. What a funny microcosm of of why
you're so good at this.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay, I'm going to keep going. Uh do you
have a favorite product you recently
discovered that you really love?
>> This camera and this microphone. So, I I
got a Sony mir mirrorless SLR. I forget
which one, but getting a Sony or sorry,
getting a mirrorless SLR with a wide
angle lens really transforms your video
calls. And then I have this uh I have
this Sure microphone and uh I think it's
like 180. So, this dramatically improves
the quality of my video call. And I like
to design things and you can design your
video calls and you can make them
amazing. You can have, you know, you can
have flowers in the background over
here, some sunflowers. So my my my
favorite products are my uh my camera,
my SLR camera that I use for video calls
and my microphone.
>> Uh your background is quite exquisite
and I didn't mention that, but it looks
beautiful. Okay, two more questions. Do
you have a life motto that you find
really useful in work or in life? I uh
there's a there's the outliers book
about 10,000 hours and the themes there
are you don't have to be the smartest,
you have to be sufficiently smart,
number one. Number two is focused
practice. So it's not just trying hard,
it's doing it in a in an intentional
focused way. And the third thing is lots
of practice. So you're not going to
master any No one can master anything
because they're a genius. They master it
because they spend a significant amount
of time practicing and they practice in
a in an intentional way. And so my motto
is essentially a combination of those
things, which is that I'm not going to
necessarily win because my brain is the
largest brain or that I tried the
hardest. It's because I'm going to be
the most intentional about my practice
and I'm going to be as intense as I
possibly can be about that practice.
>> Okay, final question. I'm curious if
there's just like an SEO or even AEO
win. you are just most proud of that you
always think about, wow, I can't believe
I pulled that off. I can't believe the
impact we had there.
>> I I I always like the uh example of
butter lettuce with MasterClass because
MasterClass when when I was first
working with them, they did not have
nearly as much authority as all recipes
and Martha Stewart and we I actually
didn't know I actually didn't know if I
should take the project because I
thought it might be too hard. But I did
the project it and it was hard. But uh
we were able to rank really
competitively and way better than I
expected. And I think it's probably
because of all these, you know, specific
little execution details, but uh butter
lettuce was was my uh favorite one. And
I and I like butter lettuce. So I can
search for butter lettuce and I can get
a recipe on masterclass.
>> That's amazing. Uh I don't know if
butter lettuce has been mentioned on
this podcast before. Uh Ethan, this was
incredible. This was everything I was
hoping it'd be. I feel like we've just
leveled up everyone's knowledge on what
the hell is happening with SEO and AEO.
Uh forget about Gio. Two final
questions. Where can folks find you if
they want to potentially work with you
guys and how can listeners be useful to
you?
>> So where you can find me number one is
on LinkedIn. I spend lots of time on
LinkedIn and I publish original. So we
do original research. We have a whole
Hill research team hypothesizing and
evaluating those hypotheses. So we
publish all the studies that I mentioned
we publish on our site and I publish
them on LinkedIn. So follow me on
LinkedIn, add me on LinkedIn, send me a
message. Uh LinkedIn number one. And
then number two is we have a blog which
we call the 5%. So slash5% which stands
for 5% of work 5% of landing pages drive
almost all the impact. So that's sort of
the theme. This is only useful stuff. So
uh our our blog at 5% you could
subscribe uh to our to our email and to
our studies. And then how can people be
useful to me? So I spent time thinking
about this and there's two ways people
can help me. The first way is that
there's not that much uh research around
what works in AEO and I would love to
know what people are testing and what
the results are and what works. So
people doing studies and publishing that
or sending it to me, I would love you
know as much analysis and research as
possible. Number one. Then the second
one is uh to help me on LinkedIn by
commenting on my posts and on my
comments. So, you posted most recently
uh the Brian Balffor episode for which I
wrote a long thoughtful comment and then
I got about 25 likes and then I got
responses to that and so I've been
commenting on other people's LinkedIn
posts and I've been writing these long
LinkedIn posts and when people comment
it boosts the engagement within LinkedIn
and then I get mass distribution. So the
more people and thoughtful comments so
not this is great but you know a long
thoughtful comment that stimulates
conversation. So, if people comment on
my posts, then I'm just gonna blow up in
LinkedIn and I might be as big as you
someday.
>> I love how tactical this ask is. Uh,
it's something Brian Johnson, I noticed,
is really good at on Twitter, the
longevity guy. He just replies to tweets
in a really funny way and feels like
that's a big growth channel for him. So,
uh, I love that you have this in common
with Brian Johnson.
>> Yes.
>> Also, just to point people to your
domain, graphite.io, is that the right
domain?
>> Yep.
>> Amazing. Ethan, thank you so much for
sharing so much with us and for being
here.
>> Absolutely. It's good to be here.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.